content/create-litecoin-multisig-transaction.rst, before:

Create a Litecoin Multisig Transaction
======================================

:date: 2018-05-16 19:11
:modified: 2018-05-16 19:54
:tags: litecoin, LTC, multisig, send transaction, create transaction, bitcoinlib, CL wallet
:category: BitcoinLib
:slug: create-litecoin-multisig-transaction
:authors: Lennart Jongeneel
:summary: Create a Litecoin Multisig Transaction with the 2-of-3 multisig wallet using the BitcoinLib Command Line Utility
:language: en
:status: draft


.. :slug: create-litecoin-multisig-transaction:


This guide assumes you `created a Litecoin 2-of-3 wallet <{filename}/create-litecoin-multisig-wallet.rst>`_
following the previous article.

We will create a Litecoin multisig transaction using the command line wallet from
`Python BitcoinLib <{filename}/python-bitcoin-library.rst>`_ with the online main wallet
and an offline wallet.


Create transaction with online wallet
-------------------------------------

First update your wallet and unspent transaction outputs:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cli-wallet LitecoinMS-on -x
    Command Line Wallet for BitcoinLib

    Updating wallet
    Wallet info for LitecoinMS-on
    === WALLET ===
     ID                             25
     Name                           LitecoinMS-on
     Owner
     Scheme                         multisig
     Multisig Wallet IDs            26, 27, 28
     Main network                   litecoin

    = Multisig main keys =
      221 m/45'/2'/0'                  LVcDqvm8wJ29KDZb4KUyi8jP2LYRbAbzry            LitecoinMS-on-cosigner-0
      222 m/45'/2'/0'                  LPHQRc7pWM8kT1bxk1tSEFD69ms3zDwyev            LitecoinMS-on-cosigner-1
      223 m                            LP5Rwvu4FVjiSThXssnN3nb4UYVi3N77vi            LitecoinMS-on-cosigner-2

    - NETWORK: litecoin -
    - - Keys
      234 m/45'/2'/0'/0/0              3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD            Multisig Key 233/232/230             0.03266639 LTC

    - - Transactions (Account 0, Ltub2SSUS19CirucWsPQ8ekikRQ5BKr3FiQBfPUHoW4p9LP9MT7ifG5HBJvR3kkowxFm8aXiMSXXgRQfZHVGQCDWyMnBvnsDUzMkKT9eBQnt1nk)
      10 9a9b4c9c9decefd50b7f40c3a243bbd514a18958cda70aa4fe9f82e0726e4d2f   3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD        1       3266639 U

    = Balance Totals (includes unconfirmed) =
    litecoin             (Account 0)                0.03266639 LTC

If unspent transaction outputs are found you can create a transaction. We create a transaction
to send 0.01 LTC to another address.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cli-wallet LitecoinMS-on -t LgaczM5X63xd7QNnKrLjLK4rhrSQqfxuKv 1000000
    Command Line Wallet for BitcoinLib

    Transaction created
    Transaction
    Date: None
    Network: litecoin
    Status: new
    Verified: False
    Inputs
    - 3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD 3266639 9a9b4c9c9decefd50b7f40c3a243bbd514a18958cda70aa4fe9f82e0726e4d2f 0
      Script type: p2sh_multisig, signatures: 1 (2 of 3)
    Outputs
    - LgaczM5X63xd7QNnKrLjLK4rhrSQqfxuKv 1000000
    - 3LPmJ7DLR9v4ax6cSdPtgMB9jh7CDQ4Y64 2209347
    Fee: 57292
    Confirmations: None
    Pushed to network: False
    Wallet: LitecoinMS-on

    Transaction created but not send yet. Transaction dictionary for export:
    {'fee': 57292,
     'inputs': [{'address': '3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD',
                 'output_n': 0,
                 'prev_hash': '9a9b4c9c9decefd50b7f40c3a243bbd514a18958cda70aa4fe9f82e0726e4d2f',
                 'signatures': [{'pub_key': '0364170e13312e6a2a867ce65e868a5539d53ed79017943f95059a2525fef5bb0f',
                                 'sig_der': '304502210091ddefdd9b18e036b0fe930a395914522f189c812c40fbbfbfe0d9936e645bfb022064c29a3fb85f0fac6ae0debeff410aca8c310c339def1ffa0e47b63a68b89f1a',
                                 'signature': '91ddefdd9b18e036b0fe930a395914522f189c812c40fbbfbfe0d9936e645bfb64c29a3fb85f0fac6ae0debeff410aca8c310c339def1ffa0e47b63a68b89f1a'}],
                 'value': 3266639}],
     'network': 'litecoin',
     'outputs': [{'address': 'LgaczM5X63xd7QNnKrLjLK4rhrSQqfxuKv',
                  'value': 1000000},
                 {'address': '3LPmJ7DLR9v4ax6cSdPtgMB9jh7CDQ4Y64',
                  'value': 2209347}],
     'raw': '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'}

The commandline wallet outputs a the transaction in human readable format and as a Python dictionary.
The transaction does not verify yet because it is only signed by 1 signature and it needs 2. So now
copy the python dictionary and save it to a USB stick in text format.


Sign transaction with offline wallet
------------------------------------

Go to the offline device to sign the transaction with the second key. Use the following command to
import the freshly transaction dictionary.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cli-wallet LitecoinMS -i "{'fee': 57292,
    >      'inputs': [{'address': '3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD',
    >                  'output_n': 0,
    >                  'prev_hash': '9a9b4c9c9decefd50b7f40c3a243bbd514a18958cda70aa4fe9f82e0726e4d2f',
    >                  'signatures': [{'pub_key': '0364170e13312e6a2a867ce65e868a5539d53ed79017943f95059a2525fef5bb0f',
    >                                  'sig_der': '304502210091ddefdd9b18e036b0fe930a395914522f189c812c40fbbfbfe0d9936e645bfb022064c29a3fb85f0fac6ae0debeff410aca8c310c339def1ffa0e47b63a68b89f1a',
    >                                  'signature': '91ddefdd9b18e036b0fe930a395914522f189c812c40fbbfbfe0d9936e645bfb64c29a3fb85f0fac6ae0debeff410aca8c310c339def1ffa0e47b63a68b89f1a'}],
    >                  'value': 3266639}],
    >      'network': 'litecoin',
    >      'outputs': [{'address': 'LgaczM5X63xd7QNnKrLjLK4rhrSQqfxuKv',
    >                   'value': 1000000},
    >                  {'address': '3LPmJ7DLR9v4ax6cSdPtgMB9jh7CDQ4Y64',
    >                   'value': 2209347}],
    >      'raw': '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'}"
    Command Line Wallet for BitcoinLib

    Transaction
    Date: None
    Network: litecoin
    Status: new
    Verified: True
    Inputs
    - 3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD 3266639 9a9b4c9c9decefd50b7f40c3a243bbd514a18958cda70aa4fe9f82e0726e4d2f 0
      Script type: p2sh_multisig, signatures: 2 (2 of 3)
    Outputs
    - LgaczM5X63xd7QNnKrLjLK4rhrSQqfxuKv 1000000
    - 3LPmJ7DLR9v4ax6cSdPtgMB9jh7CDQ4Y64 2209347
    Fee: 57292
    Confirmations: None
    Pushed to network: False
    Wallet: LitecoinMS
    Signed transaction:
    {'fee': 57292,
     'inputs': [{'address': '3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD',
                 'output_n': 0,
                 'prev_hash': '9a9b4c9c9decefd50b7f40c3a243bbd514a18958cda70aa4fe9f82e0726e4d2f',
                 'signatures': [{'pub_key': '0364170e13312e6a2a867ce65e868a5539d53ed79017943f95059a2525fef5bb0f',
                                 'sig_der': '304502210091ddefdd9b18e036b0fe930a395914522f189c812c40fbbfbfe0d9936e645bfb022064c29a3fb85f0fac6ae0debeff410aca8c310c339def1ffa0e47b63a68b89f1a',
                                 'signature': '91ddefdd9b18e036b0fe930a395914522f189c812c40fbbfbfe0d9936e645bfb64c29a3fb85f0fac6ae0debeff410aca8c310c339def1ffa0e47b63a68b89f1a'},
                                {'pub_key': '038de68940ee5bf5c3004c940768155338f0fd404049ecd5760219e7386726b97f',
                                 'sig_der': '3045022100ed4f1c06fecc53df9b36dd54a79d5b8764f147fc5538f707df6c4a6afd3070390220419311e194d9e42984f8c4ec246f12e587b9f9e67caaf417ad51c7a23a6bf52e',
                                 'signature': 'ed4f1c06fecc53df9b36dd54a79d5b8764f147fc5538f707df6c4a6afd307039419311e194d9e42984f8c4ec246f12e587b9f9e67caaf417ad51c7a23a6bf52e'}],
                 'value': 3266639}],
     'network': 'litecoin',
     'outputs': [{'address': 'LgaczM5X63xd7QNnKrLjLK4rhrSQqfxuKv',
                  'value': 1000000},
                 {'address': '3LPmJ7DLR9v4ax6cSdPtgMB9jh7CDQ4Y64',
                  'value': 2209347}],
     'raw': '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'}

This will a signed transaction and as you can see now it is verified and ready to send.

But before you continue please check if the transaction is the same as the original transaction. Besides
software or human mistakes it is a possibility someone hacks into your online PC and change the
transaction so it send outputs to another address.


Send transaction
----------------

Copy the transaction dictionary (or just the 'raw' part) to the USB stick. You can send the transaction
with any online transaction broadcast service, but below we will explain how to send it with your
online wallet. This way your online wallet is updated as well.

To send the transaction import the transaction in your online wallet. You could import it without
the 'push' option first to double check the transaction.

To broadcast your transaction to the network import the raw transaction and push.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cli-wallet LitecoinMS -p -i 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

..  == Restore wallet from backup
    = Online wallet lost
    Online PC:
    create new temporary wallet with public keys and backup key
    create new multisig wallet
    transfer funds to new wallet (see create transaction section)
    = Offline wallet lost
    Online PC:
    create transaction
    create new multisig wallet
    Offline PC:
    sign transaction with backup key
    Online PC
    send tx to new wallet

Commit message:

[REF] Import dict when signing LTC multisig tx

content/create-litecoin-multisig-transaction.rst, after:

Create a Litecoin Multisig Transaction
======================================

:date: 2018-05-16 19:11
:modified: 2018-05-16 19:54
:tags: litecoin, LTC, multisig, send transaction, create transaction, bitcoinlib, CL wallet
:category: BitcoinLib
:slug: create-litecoin-multisig-transaction
:authors: Lennart Jongeneel
:summary: Create a Litecoin Multisig Transaction with the 2-of-3 multisig wallet using the BitcoinLib Command Line Utility
:language: en
:status: draft


.. :slug: create-litecoin-multisig-transaction:


This guide assumes you `created a Litecoin 2-of-3 wallet <{filename}/create-litecoin-multisig-wallet.rst>`_
following the previous article.

We will create a Litecoin multisig transaction using the command line wallet from
`Python BitcoinLib <{filename}/python-bitcoin-library.rst>`_ with the online main wallet
and an offline wallet.


Create transaction with online wallet
-------------------------------------

First update your wallet and unspent transaction outputs:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cli-wallet LitecoinMS-on -x
    Command Line Wallet for BitcoinLib

    Updating wallet
    Wallet info for LitecoinMS-on
    === WALLET ===
     ID                             25
     Name                           LitecoinMS-on
     Owner
     Scheme                         multisig
     Multisig Wallet IDs            26, 27, 28
     Main network                   litecoin

    = Multisig main keys =
      221 m/45'/2'/0'                  LVcDqvm8wJ29KDZb4KUyi8jP2LYRbAbzry            LitecoinMS-on-cosigner-0
      222 m/45'/2'/0'                  LPHQRc7pWM8kT1bxk1tSEFD69ms3zDwyev            LitecoinMS-on-cosigner-1
      223 m                            LP5Rwvu4FVjiSThXssnN3nb4UYVi3N77vi            LitecoinMS-on-cosigner-2

    - NETWORK: litecoin -
    - - Keys
      234 m/45'/2'/0'/0/0              3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD            Multisig Key 233/232/230             0.03266639 LTC

    - - Transactions (Account 0, Ltub2SSUS19CirucWsPQ8ekikRQ5BKr3FiQBfPUHoW4p9LP9MT7ifG5HBJvR3kkowxFm8aXiMSXXgRQfZHVGQCDWyMnBvnsDUzMkKT9eBQnt1nk)
      10 9a9b4c9c9decefd50b7f40c3a243bbd514a18958cda70aa4fe9f82e0726e4d2f   3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD        1       3266639 U

    = Balance Totals (includes unconfirmed) =
    litecoin             (Account 0)                0.03266639 LTC

If unspent transaction outputs are found you can create a transaction. We create a transaction
to send 0.01 LTC to another address.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cli-wallet LitecoinMS-on -t LgaczM5X63xd7QNnKrLjLK4rhrSQqfxuKv 1000000
    Command Line Wallet for BitcoinLib

    Transaction created
    Transaction
    Date: None
    Network: litecoin
    Status: new
    Verified: False
    Inputs
    - 3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD 3266639 9a9b4c9c9decefd50b7f40c3a243bbd514a18958cda70aa4fe9f82e0726e4d2f 0
      Script type: p2sh_multisig, signatures: 1 (2 of 3)
    Outputs
    - LgaczM5X63xd7QNnKrLjLK4rhrSQqfxuKv 1000000
    - 3LPmJ7DLR9v4ax6cSdPtgMB9jh7CDQ4Y64 2209347
    Fee: 57292
    Confirmations: None
    Pushed to network: False
    Wallet: LitecoinMS-on

    Transaction created but not send yet. Transaction dictionary for export:
    {'fee': 57292,
     'inputs': [{'address': '3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD',
                 'output_n': 0,
                 'prev_hash': '9a9b4c9c9decefd50b7f40c3a243bbd514a18958cda70aa4fe9f82e0726e4d2f',
                 'signatures': [{'pub_key': '0364170e13312e6a2a867ce65e868a5539d53ed79017943f95059a2525fef5bb0f',
                                 'sig_der': '304502210091ddefdd9b18e036b0fe930a395914522f189c812c40fbbfbfe0d9936e645bfb022064c29a3fb85f0fac6ae0debeff410aca8c310c339def1ffa0e47b63a68b89f1a',
                                 'signature': '91ddefdd9b18e036b0fe930a395914522f189c812c40fbbfbfe0d9936e645bfb64c29a3fb85f0fac6ae0debeff410aca8c310c339def1ffa0e47b63a68b89f1a'}],
                 'value': 3266639}],
     'network': 'litecoin',
     'outputs': [{'address': 'LgaczM5X63xd7QNnKrLjLK4rhrSQqfxuKv',
                  'value': 1000000},
                 {'address': '3LPmJ7DLR9v4ax6cSdPtgMB9jh7CDQ4Y64',
                  'value': 2209347}],
     'raw': '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'}

The commandline wallet outputs a the transaction in human readable format and as a Python dictionary.
The transaction does not verify yet because it is only signed by 1 signature and it needs 2.

Now save the Python dictionary to an USB stick in text format and name it 'tx_dict.txt'.


Sign transaction with offline wallet
------------------------------------

Go to the offline device to sign the transaction with the second key. Use the following command to
import the freshly transaction dictionary.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cli-wallet LitecoinMS -a <path-to-usb-stick>/tx_dict.txt
    Command Line Wallet for BitcoinLib

    Transaction
    Date: None
    Network: litecoin
    Status: new
    Verified: True
    Inputs
    - 3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD 3266639 9a9b4c9c9decefd50b7f40c3a243bbd514a18958cda70aa4fe9f82e0726e4d2f 0
      Script type: p2sh_multisig, signatures: 2 (2 of 3)
    Outputs
    - LgaczM5X63xd7QNnKrLjLK4rhrSQqfxuKv 1000000
    - 3LPmJ7DLR9v4ax6cSdPtgMB9jh7CDQ4Y64 2209347
    Fee: 57292
    Confirmations: None
    Pushed to network: False
    Wallet: LitecoinMS
    Signed transaction:
    {'fee': 57292,
     'inputs': [{'address': '3Pp8bBac8UGLAHtV7R1PtDwiEXw7HY6qpD',
                 'output_n': 0,
                 'prev_hash': '9a9b4c9c9decefd50b7f40c3a243bbd514a18958cda70aa4fe9f82e0726e4d2f',
                 'signatures': [{'pub_key': '0364170e13312e6a2a867ce65e868a5539d53ed79017943f95059a2525fef5bb0f',
                                 'sig_der': '304502210091ddefdd9b18e036b0fe930a395914522f189c812c40fbbfbfe0d9936e645bfb022064c29a3fb85f0fac6ae0debeff410aca8c310c339def1ffa0e47b63a68b89f1a',
                                 'signature': '91ddefdd9b18e036b0fe930a395914522f189c812c40fbbfbfe0d9936e645bfb64c29a3fb85f0fac6ae0debeff410aca8c310c339def1ffa0e47b63a68b89f1a'},
                                {'pub_key': '038de68940ee5bf5c3004c940768155338f0fd404049ecd5760219e7386726b97f',
                                 'sig_der': '3045022100ed4f1c06fecc53df9b36dd54a79d5b8764f147fc5538f707df6c4a6afd3070390220419311e194d9e42984f8c4ec246f12e587b9f9e67caaf417ad51c7a23a6bf52e',
                                 'signature': 'ed4f1c06fecc53df9b36dd54a79d5b8764f147fc5538f707df6c4a6afd307039419311e194d9e42984f8c4ec246f12e587b9f9e67caaf417ad51c7a23a6bf52e'}],
                 'value': 3266639}],
     'network': 'litecoin',
     'outputs': [{'address': 'LgaczM5X63xd7QNnKrLjLK4rhrSQqfxuKv',
                  'value': 1000000},
                 {'address': '3LPmJ7DLR9v4ax6cSdPtgMB9jh7CDQ4Y64',
                  'value': 2209347}],
     'raw': '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'}

This will a signed transaction and as you can see now it is verified and ready to send.

But before you continue please check if the transaction is the same as the original transaction. Besides
software or human mistakes it is a possibility someone hacks into your online PC and change the
transaction so it send outputs to another address.


Send transaction
----------------

Copy the transaction dictionary (or just the 'raw' part) to the USB stick. You can send the transaction
with any online transaction broadcast service, but below we will explain how to send it with your
online wallet. This way your online wallet is updated as well.

To send the transaction import the transaction in your online wallet. You could import it without
the 'push' option first to double check the transaction.

To broadcast your transaction to the network import the raw transaction and push.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cli-wallet LitecoinMS -p -i 01000000012f4d6e72e0829ffea40aa7cd5889a114d5bb43a2c3407f0bd5efec9d9c4c9b9a00000000fdfe000048304502210091ddefdd9b18e036b0fe930a395914522f189c812c40fbbfbfe0d9936e645bfb022064c29a3fb85f0fac6ae0debeff410aca8c310c339def1ffa0e47b63a68b89f1a01483045022100ed4f1c06fecc53df9b36dd54a79d5b8764f147fc5538f707df6c4a6afd3070390220419311e194d9e42984f8c4ec246f12e587b9f9e67caaf417ad51c7a23a6bf52e014c6952210364170e13312e6a2a867ce65e868a5539d53ed79017943f95059a2525fef5bb0f21038de68940ee5bf5c3004c940768155338f0fd404049ecd5760219e7386726b97f2103ddd8009546aa3300d97cd6d49be227be78095ac72b05af8fe77490fd2091ce3f53aeffffffff0240420f00000000001976a914ea4349b431766be64c1c5015afd865e267d77a6988ac43b621000000000017a914cd271b873341f5364c9eb0217b5255be25f11cf98700000000

..  == Restore wallet from backup
    = Online wallet lost
    Online PC:
    create new temporary wallet with public keys and backup key
    create new multisig wallet
    transfer funds to new wallet (see create transaction section)
    = Offline wallet lost
    Online PC:
    create transaction
    create new multisig wallet
    Offline PC:
    sign transaction with backup key
    Online PC
    send tx to new wallet
